BUS100
Business Modeling
Dr. Rashed RefaatSix Business
Model Design
Techniques
1. Customer Insights,
2. Ideation,
3. Visual Thinking,
4. Prototyping,
5. Storytelling, and
6. Scenarios.Scenarios
• The scenario is a thinking tool that helping to reflect on business models of the
future.
• Scenario providing concrete future contexts for which we can invent appropriate
business models.
• This is usually easier and more productive than free brainstorming about
possible future business models.
• The goal of combining scenarios with business model innovation efforts is to
help your organization prepare for the future.Scenarios Types
1. First describes different customer settings
2. Describes future environmentsScenarios Types
• First type of is Describes different customer settings:
– How products or services are used,
– What kinds of customers use them, or
– Customer concerns,
– Desires, and
– Objectives• Such scenarios build on “customer insights” but go a step
further by incorporating knowledge about customers into a set
of distinct, concrete images, by describing a specific situation,
• A customer scenario makes customer insights tangible.Scenarios Types
• A second type of scenario describes future environments in
which a business model might compete.
• The goal here is not to predict the future, but rather to imagine
possible futures in concrete detail.
• This exercise helps innovators reflect on the most appropriate
business model for each of several future environments.Future Scenarios and New Business Models
1) Develop a set of future 2) Describe each scenario 3) Workshop develop one
scenarios based on two or with a story that outlines or more appropriate
more main criteria. the main elements of the business models for each
scenario scenarioScenarios development process
1. Scenarios should be developed before the business model workshop begins.
2. Ideally you should develop between two and four different scenarios based on
two or more criteria in order to run a good business model scenario workshop.
3. Each scenario should be titled and described with a short, specific narrative
outlining the main elements.
4. Begin the workshop by asking participants to review the scenarios.
5. develop an appropriate business model for each.Scenarios development process
If the objective is to maximize a group’s understanding of all the potential futures,
(6) everyone to participate in a single group and let them collectively develop
different business models for each scenario.
If the objective to generating a set of very diverse future business models,
(6) you might decide to organize participants into different groups that work in
parallel on separate solutions for the various scenarios.1) Describing, 5) Explaining techniques that
What you
facilitate the design and
2) Discussing, and
knew now?
invention of new business
3) Designing BM.,
models.
4) Describing BM. patterns,StrategyObjective
We are going to re-interpreting
strategy through the lens of the
Business Model Canvas.• Business Model Environment
• Evaluating Business Models
Contents
• Business Model Perspective on Blue Ocean Strategy
• Managing Multiple Business Models• Business Model Environment
• Evaluating Business Models
Contents
• Business Model Perspective on Blue Ocean Strategy
• Managing Multiple Business ModelsBusiness Model Environment
• Business models are designed and executed in specific
environments.
• key external forces that influence business models and
categorize them using the four areas just mentioned.Business Model Environment
Forces
Business Model “Design Space”, has four main
Environment forces:
(1) Market forces,
(2) Industry forces,
(3) Key trends, and
(4) Macroeconomic forces.HHooww sshhoouulldd yyoouurr bbuussiinneessss mmooddeell
eevvoollvvee ccoonnssiiddeerriinngg aa cchhaannggiinngg
eennvviirroonnmmeenntt??
AA ccoommppeettiittiivvee bbuussiinneessss mmooddeell tthhaatt mmaakkeess sseennssee iinn ttooddaayy’’ss
eennvviirroonnmmeenntt mmiigghhtt bbee oouuttddaatteedd oorr eevveenn oobbssoolleettee
ttoommoorrrrooww..