Hey, everyone. Nick here. I haven't created a YouTube video in a while, so let's get started here. I'm going to try to help people more this year and this video I'm going to talk about five tips to learn flutter. Like a pro. Take that word as you will. Right, pro. But if I was starting over myself again, learning flutter, I would want to probably take this advice for myself because I would have saved myself a lot of time. So the problem a lot of people have and what this advice is targeted for is people who spend months and months and months and they are stuck in kind of like learning the same stuff. They don't know what their learning path should be. They're stuck in a tutorial hell. They still can't build a basic app or apply for a job or a freelancing position. So I think it's a matter of getting your learning path down and learning understanding what the best things to learn are, trying to understand what to avoid learning and build things like learn how to build first, rather than getting too obsessed with learning every little feature under the sun with Flutter. So before we start, if you don't know me already, my name is Nick. I have this YouTube channel where I help people learn flutter and just give my advice. I've been coding for 20 years. Ten years of that has been in mobile development. I've worked with Fortune 500 companies and startups building mobile apps, and I have been teaching flutter for about four years now. So these are just my personal pieces of advice. You can disagree with them, that's fine. But this is just my advice and what I've seen in both very large teams and very small teams. So tip number one, learning as a new flutter developer is a multiplayer game, right? It's not single player. You're going to learn the best when you connect with people and software engineers. Yes, they're mostly kind of introverted. A number of software engineers are. And you probably will say to yourself, like, okay, I can just read online documentation and courses and I don't really have to talk to anyone. But I disagree. I think the best thing you can do right now as a flutter developer, just getting started is one of two things, right? Or just two things, basically. One, go to flutter dev community and check out all the different ways you can connect with other flutter developers. Second thing is, whatever you're working on, even if it's a crummy bit of code that you find embarrassing, create a new GitHub repository that's public and just put the code there so that if you want to share with other people, you want to get help, you can point them to your repository. Don't email people with your code, don't send screenshots to people with your code and be ready to share that code and get opinions of your code. So what I like to do is join some different slack channels discord servers. If you need some extra advice, you can email me. I have my email in the show notes here and you can ask people on stack overflow, which is great, but get used to asking questions and connecting with the community. So tip number two, stop learning what state management is when you're just getting started out learning flutter, right? So this is part of my advice in the beginning about learning what to avoid, learning to save your time, and what to kind of double down on, right? So there's lots of different opinions of what state management is. And I posted a great link by Matt Carroll, who also has a flutter channel, who explains the different kind of interpretations of state management. My whole point is state management packages, third party packages are often taught in courses and people talk about them on social media. And you start to kind of, as a newcomer to flutter, you feel like, oh, well, what's the best one for me, right? Just ignore that for now. Learn how to build a very simple app first and then get to this whole state management stuff, right? There are certain topics in flutter that you're just going to not need anytime soon if you just want to be basic, fundamentally competent as a new flutter engineer. So in a minute, I'm going to go into what you should learn instead of that. But my whole point is flutter offers state management out of the box, right? There's something called inherited widget and there's ways to pass data to and from screens, and that's all well and good, but most likely when you're just starting out learning flutter, you're not going to need to pass state across a widget tree. Your app is going to be very simple. So what do you learn instead of state management when you're just getting started out? So my advice is learn how to build the most typical stereotypical app in the mobile space there is, which is a list view of stuff that you can tap on one of those items and it transitions to a detail screen that shows some simple UI showing the detail of something, right? You don't need a state management package for that, but I'll bet you that a lot of newcomers to flutter have been learning for months and they still can't implement that. Now, I've been a hiring manager for more than five years now and I have experience fielding candidate resumes, code submissions and when. In the past I've interviewed people applying for a job, if they're a freelancer or a full time engineer, that is a very typical question I'm going to give them, which is, can you build a screen that shows a list of stuff with some dummy data? Can you tap on an item and show a detailed screen? Now for more senior candidates out there, it's going to get much more complex than that. But focus on doing that and the widgets you can learn. To start off with flutter is scaffold list, view column and just basic layout, text button and handling tap events. And that's a great set of skills to just get started. So tip number three, finding the best flutter architecture, or best of anything, is something that will just waste your time. In engineering, there is no such thing as the best of anything. There are great products, great technologies out there. There are not so great technologies out there, but there are always trade offs. In programming, there is no best of anything, right? It all depends on the budgets, the team size, the expertise of a team, the use cases, the requirements of the application, et cetera. So there are many different types of flutter architecture patterns out there or in general programming patterns for mobile development. And trying to learn what the best is will waste your time. Because if I were to bet money on it, if you're actually serious about applying for a real flutter position, somewhere, most likely there are going to be people that are going to say, look, we already take this approach, we don't want to use your architecture pattern, right? Or this project might be too simple and it's just going to be overkill and waste your time. So don't get too obsessed with that. Learn how to focus on the basics of software engineering and you can soak up different practices as you go and then choose the one that's right for you. Number four, if you're a newcomer to motable development, focus on the skills and widgets you need versus ones that people tell you they think you need, right? So you can binge watch on YouTube all you want, or take as many courses as you want, and all of those courses or mini courses or whatever, they're obligated to teach you a very comprehensive list of skills because they're just trying to cover all the bases. But most likely you're not going to need those skills. I won't go into what those skills may be because it's very contextual and based on everyone's requirements. But what I think you might want to consider learning is the absolute basics, and that's what I went over previously. Can you write a very basic app, no matter what it does, and can you show people that and put it in a portfolio somewhere? Focus on that first before learning how to build extremely, extremely complex user interface or learning some very exotic feature of flutter that you may never use. Right. If it's fun to you and you find it interesting, great, go ahead and do that. But honestly, if you want to get a job or a freelancing gig or whatever, just focus on the boring basics first. I don't think it's boring because I like to teach flutter and I like very simple apps. But just focus on practical skills first and what you can show off in your portfolio. Five, the last tip. This is the big one because I have a lot of follow up content and thoughts on this and it's going to probably spur a lot of conversations. So here I go, right? Flutter is not the only skill you will learn if you want a career in mobile development. There's a lot that goes into writing mobile apps and flutter's role is to draw and render things on a user interface, on a screen somewhere, and it supports cross platform rendering of that. So Android, iOS, Windows, Linux, web, whatever, right? If you want to stay focused only on user interface development, that's amazing. That's fine. You can do that. You can just focus only on the fact that you are a flutter engineer and you just do UI development, that's totally fine. But let me give you an example. If you want to build an amazing app idea and you want to do it yourself or with another person, you're going to have to learn other skills, such as marketing, branding, making an amazing app icon, writing awesome copy, taking awesome screenshots, learning how to do customer support, managing app updates and bugs and all that stuff like that. So there is a lot of non technical work that goes into flutter development, especially if you're a small team ever, if you're part of a larger team or a small startup, you're going to have to learn about other things that are outside flutter development. Can you set up push notifications? Right? And are they effective? Can you report logs that if your app crashes or just error logs to a remote service, can you integrate that that's not related to flutter per se? Can you offer the same functionality to a web app but also your flutter app? Right. So that's starting to get into the realm of full stack mobile development. If you have any advice, questions, just feel free to email me, I'll try to kind of answer everyone that emails me. It's just Nick@fluttercrashcourse.com and you can also reach out on my discord server and I'll put that link below. And if you're interested in learning flutter, I create videos and I also have a website, flutter crash. So thanks for watching and check out some of these other videos if you want to. Just learn the basics. Getting started with Flutter and I'll see you soon.